Short notes to included plugins:

ace - very unstable playback. Sometimes even movement with mouse (!) can
make it mute... no clue, I tried to contact Thomas but hasn't replied to the
date.

aon - seems to be stable on 060, most of the time :)

asap - great ASAP player for Atari 8-bit musics. Comes in three versions:
asap.mxp (classic Atari), asap_cf.mxp (FireBee build) and asap_ara.mxp
(ARAnyM build). The reason for Aranym build is that even with the correct
audio frequency, its DMA pointer sooner or later runs away which results in
corrupted replay. With more precise Timer-A this doesn't happen. Atari and
CF versions are 100% system friendly, not a single HW access.

dspmod - marked as 030 only, as I've seen it crash on CT60. It makes no
sense to use it on 060 anyway, there's XMP.

gt2 - on 060 it switches cache off (by default, you can change it) as some
modules with more channels crashed the player

mgt - 030 only, if I disable CT60 caches, then it's too slow ;) But don't worry,
XMP can play MGTs, too!

mp2 - no change against 1.x version. It can play some MP2s which the
original player can't. No Direct from Disk yet.

mpg123 - full featured MPEG-1 player for all three layers (aka MP1, MP2,
MP3). Comes in three versions, see above.

ntk - 030 only, not very stable, not very helpful :) Works best (only) in TOS.

snd - 030 only, dirty, dirty, dirty. Works best in TOS but even here it's
quite unstable after some time.

xmp - the ultimate player for all kind of modules. It can play pretty much
everything. It comes also in three version, see above. Btw, you can play
also archived modules (packed with zip etc) but I'm not sure if it works
well all the time.

Beware, if you try to use plugins which serve the same file type (MP2 for
example), there's random priority (first come, first served). So, if you use
030 only, feel free to disable (.mxp -> .mxx) all 060 plugins (ASAP, MPG123,
XMP) and vice versa. You can always check in Plugin Info dialog what replay
routine is used right now.

Generally speaking, don't expect too much from the fact mxPlay is a GEM
application. Most of the plugins rape OS vectors, timers, caches etc so maybe
except ASAP and XMP, you'll see quite strange side effects when clicking in
desktop.

Important warning: if you want to use ASAP/MPG123/XMP on ARAnyM, don't
forget to set 'Frequency = 49170' in ARAnyM's config file! (in [AUDIO]
section)
